<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h2>
			<p>‚ÄúAll I can say is, I think Daisy ought to go. One can‚Äôt always do just what one wants to do‚ÅÝ‚Äînot in this world, at any rate!‚Äù</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting did not seem to be addressing anyone in particular, though both her husband and her stepdaughter were in the room. She was standing by the table, staring straight before her, and as she spoke she avoided looking at either Bunting or Daisy. There was in her voice a tone of cross decision, of thin finality, with which they were both acquainted, and to which each listener knew the other would have to bow.</p>
			<p>There was silence for a moment, then Daisy broke out passionately, ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt see why I should go if I don‚Äôt want to!‚Äù she cried. ‚ÄúYou‚Äôll allow I‚Äôve been useful to you, Ellen? ‚ÄôTisn‚Äôt even as if you was quite well.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI am quite well‚ÅÝ‚Äîperfectly well!‚Äù snapped out <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting, and she turned her pale, drawn face, and looked angrily at her stepdaughter.</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄôTain‚Äôt often I has a chance of being with you and father.‚Äù There were tears in Daisy‚Äôs voice, and Bunting glanced deprecatingly at his wife.</p>
			<p>An invitation had come to Daisy‚ÅÝ‚Äîan invitation from her own dead mother‚Äôs sister, who was housekeeper in a big house in Belgrave Square. ‚ÄúThe family‚Äù had gone away for the Christmas holidays, and Aunt Margaret‚ÅÝ‚ÄîDaisy was her godchild‚ÅÝ‚Äîhad begged that her niece might come and spend two or three days with her.</p>
			<p>But the girl had already had more than one taste of what life was like in the great gloomy basement of 100 Belgrave Square. Aunt Margaret was one of those old-fashioned servants for whom the modern employer is always sighing. While ‚Äúthe family‚Äù were away it was her joy‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe regarded it as a privilege‚ÅÝ‚Äîto wash sixty-seven pieces of very valuable china contained in two cabinets in the drawing-room; she also slept in every bed by turns, to keep them all well aired. These were the two duties with which she intended her young niece to assist her, and Daisy‚Äôs soul sickened at the prospect.</p>
			<p>But the matter had to be settled at once. The letter had come an hour ago, containing a stamped telegraph form, and Aunt Margaret was not one to be trifled with.</p>
			<p>Since breakfast the three had talked of nothing else, and from the very first <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting had said that Daisy ought to go‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat there was no doubt about it, that it did not admit of discussion. But discuss it they all did, and for once Bunting stood up to his wife. But that, as was natural, only made his Ellen harder and more set on her own view.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat the child says is true,‚Äù he observed. ‚ÄúIt isn‚Äôt as if you was quite well. You‚Äôve been took bad twice in the last few days‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou can‚Äôt deny of it, Ellen. Why shouldn‚Äôt I just take a bus and go over and see Margaret? I‚Äôd tell her just how it is. She‚Äôd understand, bless you!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI won‚Äôt have you doing nothing of the sort!‚Äù cried <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting, speaking almost as passionately as her stepdaughter had done. ‚ÄúHaven‚Äôt I a right to be ill, haven‚Äôt I a right to be took bad, aye, and to feel all right again‚ÅÝ‚Äîsame as other people?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Daisy turned round and clasped her hands. ‚ÄúOh, Ellen!‚Äù she cried; ‚Äúdo say that you can‚Äôt spare me! I don‚Äôt want to go across to that horrid old dungeon of a place.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDo as you like,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting sullenly. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm fair tired of you both! There‚Äôll come a day, Daisy, when you‚Äôll know, like me, that money is the main thing that matters in this world; and when your Aunt Margaret‚Äôs left her savings to somebody else just because you wouldn‚Äôt spend a few days with her this Christmas, then you‚Äôll know what it‚Äôs like to go without‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou‚Äôll know what a fool you were, and that nothing can‚Äôt alter it any more!‚Äù</p>
			<p>And then, with victory actually in her grasp, poor Daisy saw it snatched from her.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúEllen is right,‚Äù Bunting said heavily. ‚ÄúMoney does matter‚ÅÝ‚Äîa terrible deal‚ÅÝ‚Äîthough I never thought to hear Ellen say ‚Äôtwas the only thing that mattered. But ‚Äôtwould be foolish‚ÅÝ‚Äîvery, very foolish, my girl, to offend your Aunt Margaret. It‚Äôll only be two days after all‚ÅÝ‚Äîtwo days isn‚Äôt a very long time.‚Äù</p>
			<p>But Daisy did not hear her father‚Äôs last words. She had already rushed from the room, and gone down to the kitchen to hide her childish tears of disappointment‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe childish tears which came because she was beginning to be a woman, with a woman‚Äôs natural instinct for building her own human nest.</p>
			<p>Aunt Margaret was not one to tolerate the comings of any strange young man, and she had a peculiar dislike to the police.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWho‚Äôd ever have thought she‚Äôd have minded as much as that!‚Äù Bunting looked across at Ellen deprecatingly; already his heart was misgiving him.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs plain enough why she‚Äôs become so fond of us all of a sudden,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting sarcastically. And as her husband stared at her uncomprehendingly, she added, in a tantalising tone, ‚Äúas plain as the nose on your face, my man.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat d‚Äôyou mean?‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúI daresay I‚Äôm a bit slow, Ellen, but I really don‚Äôt know what you‚Äôd be at?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDon‚Äôt you remember telling me before Daisy came here that Joe Chandler had become sweet on her last summer? I thought it only foolishness then, but I‚Äôve come round to your view‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat‚Äôs all.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Bunting nodded his head slowly. Yes, Joe had got into the way of coming very often, and there had been the expedition to that gruesome Scotland Yard museum, but somehow he, Bunting, had been so interested in the Avenger murders that he hadn‚Äôt thought of Joe in any other connection‚ÅÝ‚Äînot this time, at any rate.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd do you think Daisy likes him?‚Äù There was an unwonted tone of excitement, of tenderness, in Bunting‚Äôs voice.</p>
			<p>His wife looked over at him; and a thin smile, not an unkindly smile by any means, lit up her pale face. ‚ÄúI‚Äôve never been one to prophesy,‚Äù she answered deliberately. ‚ÄúBut this I don‚Äôt mind telling you, Bunting‚ÅÝ‚ÄîDaisy‚Äôll have plenty o‚Äô time to get tired of Joe Chandler before they two are dead. Mark my words!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, she might do worse,‚Äù said Bunting ruminatingly. ‚ÄúHe‚Äôs as steady as God makes them, and he‚Äôs already earning thirty-two shillings a week. But I wonder how Old Aunt‚Äôd like the notion? I don‚Äôt see her parting with Daisy before she must.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI wouldn‚Äôt let no old aunt interfere with me about such a thing as that!‚Äù cried <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting. ‚ÄúNo, not for millions of gold!‚Äù And Bunting looked at her in silent wonder. Ellen was singing a very different tune now to what she‚Äôd sung a few minutes ago, when she was so keen about the girl going to Belgrave Square.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIf she still seems upset while she‚Äôs having her dinner,‚Äù said his wife suddenly, ‚Äúwell, you just wait till I‚Äôve gone out for something, and then you just say to her, ‚ÄòAbsence makes the heart grow fonder‚Äô‚ÅÝ‚Äîjust that, and nothing more! She‚Äôll take it from you. And I shouldn‚Äôt be surprised if it comforted her quite a lot.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFor the matter of that, there‚Äôs no reason why Joe Chandler shouldn‚Äôt go over and see her there,‚Äù said Bunting hesitatingly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, yes, there is,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting, smiling shrewdly. ‚ÄúPlenty of reason. Daisy‚Äôll be a very foolish girl if she allows her aunt to know any of her secrets. I‚Äôve only seen that woman once, but I know exactly the sort Margaret is. She‚Äôs just waiting for Old Aunt to drop off and then she‚Äôll want to have Daisy herself‚ÅÝ‚Äîto wait on her, like. She‚Äôd turn quite nasty if she thought there was a young fellow what stood in her way.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She glanced at the clock, the pretty little eight-day clock which had been a wedding present from a kind friend of her last mistress. It had mysteriously disappeared during their time of trouble, and had as mysteriously reappeared three or four days after <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSleuth‚Äôs arrival.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôve time to go out with that telegram,‚Äù she said briskly‚ÅÝ‚Äîsomehow she felt better, different to what she had done the last few days‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúand then it‚Äôll be done. It‚Äôs no good having more words about it, and I expect we should have plenty more words if I wait till the child comes upstairs again.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She did not speak unkindly, and Bunting looked at her rather wonderingly. Ellen very seldom spoke of Daisy as ‚Äúthe child‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äîin fact, he could only remember her having done so once before, and that was a long time ago. They had been talking over their future life together, and she had said, very solemnly, ‚ÄúBunting, I promise I will do my duty‚ÅÝ‚Äîas much as lies in my power, that is‚ÅÝ‚Äîby the child.‚Äù</p>
			<p>But Ellen had not had much opportunity of doing her duty by Daisy. As not infrequently happens with the duties that we are willing to do, that particular duty had been taken over by someone else who had no mind to let it go.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat shall I do if <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSleuth rings?‚Äù asked Bunting, rather nervously. It was the first time since the lodger had come to them that Ellen had offered to go out in the morning.</p>
			<p>She hesitated. In her anxiety to have the matter of Daisy settled, she had forgotten <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSleuth. Strange that she should have done so‚ÅÝ‚Äîstrange, and, to herself, very comfortable and pleasant.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, well, you can just go up and knock at the door and say I‚Äôll be back in a few minutes‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat I had to go out with a message. He‚Äôs quite a reasonable gentleman.‚Äù She went into the back room to put on her bonnet and thick jacket for it was very cold‚ÅÝ‚Äîgetting colder every minute.</p>
			<p>As she stood, buttoning her gloves‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe wouldn‚Äôt have gone out untidy for the world‚ÅÝ‚ÄîBunting suddenly came across to her. ‚ÄúGive us a kiss, old girl,‚Äù he said. And his wife turned up her face.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOne ‚Äôud think it was catching!‚Äù she said, but there was a lilt in her voice.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSo it is,‚Äù Bunting briefly answered. ‚ÄúDidn‚Äôt that old cook get married just after us? She‚Äôd never ‚Äôa thought of it if it hadn‚Äôt been for you!‚Äù</p>
			<p>But once she was out, walking along the damp, uneven pavement, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSleuth revenged himself for his landlady‚Äôs temporary forgetfulness.</p>
			<p>During the last two days the lodger had been queer, odder than usual, unlike himself, or, rather, very much as he had been some ten days ago, just before that double murder had taken place.</p>
			<p>The night before, while Daisy was telling all about the dreadful place to which Joe Chandler had taken her and her father, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting had heard <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSleuth moving about overhead, restlessly walking up and down his sitting-room. And later, when she took up his supper, she had listened a moment outside the door, while he read aloud some of the texts his soul delighted in‚ÅÝ‚Äîterrible texts telling of the grim joys attendant on revenge.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting was so absorbed in her thoughts, so possessed with the curious personality of her lodger, that she did not look where she was going, and suddenly a young woman bumped up against her.</p>
			<p>She started violently and looked round, dazed, as the young person muttered a word of apology;‚ÅÝ‚Äîthen she again fell into deep thought.</p>
			<p>It was a good thing Daisy was going away for a few days; it made the problem of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSleuth and his queer ways less disturbing. She, Ellen, was sorry she had spoken so sharp-like to the girl, but after all it wasn‚Äôt wonderful that she had been snappy. This last night she had hardly slept at all. Instead, she had lain awake listening‚ÅÝ‚Äîand there is nothing so tiring as to lie awake listening for a sound that never comes.</p>
			<p>The house had remained so still you could have heard a pin drop. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSleuth, lying snug in his nice warm bed upstairs, had not stirred. Had he stirred his landlady was bound to have heard him, for his bed was, as we know, just above hers. No, during those long hours of darkness Daisy‚Äôs light, regular breathing was all that had fallen on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting‚Äôs ears.</p>
			<p>And then her mind switched off <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSleuth. She made a determined effort to expel him, to toss him, as it were, out of her thoughts.</p>
			<p>It seemed strange that The Avenger had stayed his hand, for, as Joe had said only last evening, it was full time that he should again turn that awful, mysterious searchlight of his on himself. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting always visioned The Avenger as a black shadow in the centre of a bright blinding light‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut the shadow had no form or definite substance. Sometimes he looked like one thing, sometimes like another‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting had now come to the corner which led up the street where there was a Post Office. But instead of turning sharp to the left she stopped short for a minute.</p>
			<p>There had suddenly come over her a feeling of horrible self-rebuke and even self-loathing. It was dreadful that she, of all women, should have longed to hear that another murder had been committed last night!</p>
			<p>Yet such was the shameful fact. She had listened all through breakfast hoping to hear the dread news being shouted outside; yes, and more or less during the long discussion which had followed on the receipt of Margaret‚Äôs letter she had been hoping‚ÅÝ‚Äîhoping against hope‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat those dreadful triumphant shouts of the newspaper-sellers still might come echoing down the Marylebone Road. And yet hypocrite that she was, she had reproved Bunting when he had expressed, not disappointment exactly‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut, well, surprise, that nothing had happened last night.</p>
			<p>Now her mind switched off to Joe Chandler. Strange to think how afraid she had been of that young man! She was no longer afraid of him, or hardly at all. He was dotty‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat‚Äôs what was the matter with him, dotty with love for rosy-cheeked, blue-eyed little Daisy. Anything might now go on, right under Joe Chandler‚Äôs very nose‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut, bless you, he‚Äôd never see it! Last summer, when this affair, this nonsense of young Chandler and Daisy had begun, she had had very little patience with it all. In fact, the memory of the way Joe had gone on then, the tiresome way he would be always dropping in, had been one reason (though not the most important reason of all) why she had felt so terribly put about at the idea of the girl coming again. But now? Well, now she had become quite tolerant, quite kindly‚ÅÝ‚Äîat any rate as far as Joe Chandler was concerned.</p>
			<p>She wondered why.</p>
			<p>Still, ‚Äôtwouldn‚Äôt do Joe a bit of harm not to see the girl for a couple of days. In fact ‚Äôtwould be a very good thing, for then he‚Äôd think of Daisy‚ÅÝ‚Äîthink of her to the exclusion of all else. Absence does make the heart grow fonder‚ÅÝ‚Äîat first, at any rate. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting was well aware of that. During the long course of hers and Bunting‚Äôs mild courting, they‚Äôd been separated for about three months, and it was that three months which had made up her mind for her. She had got so used to Bunting that she couldn‚Äôt do without him, and she had felt‚ÅÝ‚Äîoddest fact of all‚ÅÝ‚Äîacutely, miserably jealous. But she hadn‚Äôt let him know that‚ÅÝ‚Äîno fear!</p>
			<p>Of course, Joe mustn‚Äôt neglect his job‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat would never do. But what a good thing it was, after all, that he wasn‚Äôt like some of those detective chaps that are written about in stories‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe sort of chaps that know everything, see everything, guess everything‚ÅÝ‚Äîeven where there isn‚Äôt anything to see, or know, or guess!</p>
			<p>Why, to take only one little fact‚ÅÝ‚ÄîJoe Chandler had never shown the slightest curiosity about their lodger.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting pulled herself together with a start, and hurried quickly on. Bunting would begin to wonder what had happened to her.</p>
			<p>She went into the Post Office and handed the form to the young woman without a word. Margaret, a sensible woman, who was accustomed to manage other people‚Äôs affairs, had even written out the words: ‚ÄúWill be with you to tea.‚ÅÝ‚Äî<b>Daisy</b>.‚Äù</p>
			<p>It was a comfort to have the thing settled once for all. If anything horrible was going to happen in the next two or three days‚ÅÝ‚Äîit was just as well Daisy shouldn‚Äôt be at home. Not that there was any <em>real</em> danger that anything would happen‚ÅÝ‚Äî<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting felt sure of that.</p>
			<p>By this time she was out in the street again, and she began mentally counting up the number of murders The Avenger had committed. Nine, or was it ten? Surely by now The Avenger must be avenged? Surely by now, if‚ÅÝ‚Äîas that writer in the newspaper had suggested‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe was a quiet, blameless gentleman living in the West End, whatever vengeance he had to wreak, must be satisfied?</p>
			<p>She began hurrying homewards; it wouldn‚Äôt do for the lodger to ring before she had got back. Bunting would never know how to manage <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSleuth, especially if <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSleuth was in one of his queer moods.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting put the key into the front door lock and passed into the house. Then her heart stood still with fear and terror. There came the sound of voices‚ÅÝ‚Äîof voices she thought she did not know‚ÅÝ‚Äîin the sitting-room.</p>
			<p>She opened the door, and then drew a long breath. It was only Joe Chandler‚ÅÝ‚ÄîJoe, Daisy, and Bunting, talking together. They stopped rather guiltily as she came in, but not before she had heard Chandler utter the words: ‚ÄúThat don‚Äôt mean nothing! I‚Äôll just run out and send another saying you won‚Äôt come, Miss Daisy.‚Äù</p>
			<p>And then the strangest smile came over <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting‚Äôs face. There had fallen on her ear the still distant, but unmistakable, shouts which betokened that something <em>had</em> happened last night‚ÅÝ‚Äîsomething which made it worth while for the newspaper-sellers to come crying down the Marylebone Road.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell?‚Äù she said a little breathlessly. ‚ÄúWell, Joe? I suppose you‚Äôve brought us news? I suppose there‚Äôs been another?‚Äù</p>
			<p>He looked at her, surprised. ‚ÄúNo, that there hasn‚Äôt, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting‚ÅÝ‚Äînot as far as I know, that is. Oh, you‚Äôre thinking of those newspaper chaps? They‚Äôve got to cry out something,‚Äù he grinned. ‚ÄúYou wouldn‚Äôt ‚Äôa thought folk was so bloodthirsty. They‚Äôre just shouting out that there‚Äôs been an arrest; but we don‚Äôt take no stock of that. It‚Äôs a Scotchman what gave himself up last night at Dorking. He‚Äôd been drinking, and was a-pitying of himself. Why, since this business began, there‚Äôs been about twenty arrests, but they‚Äôve all come to nothing.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy, Ellen, you looks quite sad, quite disappointed,‚Äù said Bunting jokingly. ‚ÄúCome to think of it, it‚Äôs high time The Avenger was at work again.‚Äù He laughed as he made his grim joke. Then turned to young Chandler: ‚ÄúWell, <em>you‚Äôll</em> be glad when its all over, my lad.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGlad in a way,‚Äù said Chandler unwillingly. ‚ÄúBut one ‚Äôud have liked to have caught him. One doesn‚Äôt like to know such a creature‚Äôs at large, now, does one?‚Äù</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting had taken off her bonnet and jacket. ‚ÄúI must just go and see about <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSleuth‚Äôs breakfast,‚Äù she said in a weary, dispirited voice, and left them there.</p>
			<p>She felt disappointed, and very, very depressed. As to the plot which had been hatching when she came in, that had no chance of success; Bunting would never dare let Daisy send out another telegram contradicting the first. Besides, Daisy‚Äôs stepmother shrewdly suspected that by now the girl herself wouldn‚Äôt care to do such a thing. Daisy had plenty of sense tucked away somewhere in her pretty little head. If it ever became her fate to live as a married woman in London, it would be best to stay on the right side of Aunt Margaret.</p>
			<p>And when she came into her kitchen the stepmother‚Äôs heart became very soft, for Daisy had got everything beautifully ready. In fact, there was nothing to do but to boil <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSleuth‚Äôs two eggs. Feeling suddenly more cheerful than she had felt of late, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting took the tray upstairs.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAs it was rather late, I didn‚Äôt wait for you to ring, sir,‚Äù she said.</p>
			<p>And the lodger looked up from the table where, as usual, he was studying with painful, almost agonising intentness, the Book. ‚ÄúQuite right, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting‚ÅÝ‚Äîquite right! I have been pondering over the command, ‚ÄòWork while it is yet light.‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, sir?‚Äù she said, and a queer, cold feeling stole over her heart. ‚ÄúYes, sir?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòThe spirit is willing, but the flesh‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe flesh is weak,‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSleuth, with a heavy sigh.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou studies too hard, and too long‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat‚Äôs what‚Äôs ailing you, sir,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSleuth‚Äôs landlady suddenly.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>When <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBunting went down again she found that a great deal had been settled in her absence; among other things, that Joe Chandler was going to escort Miss Daisy across to Belgrave Square. He could carry Daisy‚Äôs modest bag, and if they wanted to ride instead of walk, why, they could take the bus from Baker Street Station to Victoria‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat would land them very near Belgrave Square.</p>
			<p>But Daisy seemed quite willing to walk; she hadn‚Äôt had a walk, she declared, for a long, long time‚ÅÝ‚Äîand then she blushed rosy red, and even her stepmother had to admit to herself that Daisy was very nice looking, not at all the sort of girl who ought to be allowed to go about the London streets by herself.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
